# RNAseq
**step 1: Download SRA files, high-throughput raw sequencing data.**
  method one:using the prefetch function of the SRA-tools.
  E.g:download SRR3589957-SRR3589965(RNAseq of Homo sapiens 293 cell line)
  
      for i in `seq 57 65`;
      do    
      prefetch SRR35899${i}
      done
  method two:using the FTP protocol.
  E.g:download SRR8077484-SRR8077531(Mus musculus RNAseq)
    
      for i in ` seq 484 531`;
      do
        wget -c -t 0 ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/sra-instant/reads/ByStudy/sra/SRP/SRP166/SRP166114/SRR8077${i}     /SRR8077${i}.sra  
      done
  method three:using Entrez Direct package.
  E.g:download all SRA files under the SRP091493 project number and unzip those SRA file.
  
      esearch -db sra -query SRP091493 | efetch --format runinfo | cut -d ',' -f 1 | grep SRR | xargs fastq-dump --split-files –bzip2
**step 2:Unzip the SRA file and do quality control**

    $ bash SRA-QC.sh
**step 3:Download the genome file and annotation file for the corresponding specie**
Find the corresponding genome in NCBI, copy the download link, and download it directly using the wget command.
  E.g:download genome of *Drosophila_melanogaster*,and the annotation file is gff,the same download method.
  
    wget -c -t 0 ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genomes/all/GCF/000/001/215/GCF_000001215.4_Release_6_plus_ISO1_MT/GCF_000001215.4_Release_6_plus_ISO1_MT_genomic.fna.gz
**step 4:Use the mapping tool to build index of the corresponding species genome**
  E.g:Use hisat2 to build an index file for the honeybee genome.
  
    hisat2-build /media/hp/disk1/DYY/reference/genome/Apis_mellifera/genome.fa /media/hp/disk1/DYY/reference/index/Apis_mellifera/genome_index
**step 5:Mapping to genome.**
There are many different sequence alignment tools, such as STAR,hisat2,BWA,Tophat,bowtie2...Choose tools according to your needs.
  E.g:using hisat2.
  
    $bash hisat2.sh
**step 6:Use samtools to convert the sam files generated by the alignment to bam files and sort them. The bam file is passed to the stringtie software for transcript quantification.（sam to sorted_bam,stingtie quantification）**

    $bash samtools_stringtie.sh
**step 7:

